# DataEngineeringEHRs
Ian Hay and Professor John Rachlin
December 7th, 2022

---

The 21st century ushered in the information age and the digitization of many day-to-day tasks and necessities. Governments, including the US’, sought to capitalize on this transformation to improve the well-being of their citizens through healthcare. The incentives and mandates proposed by these institutions prioritized adoption and security over a unified and standardized system, leading to fragmented data silos present today. As a result, the transfer of medical data between these systems remains a challenge, and the financial incentives for the companies involved motivate them to retain patients in their network. Additionally, consider the personal and highly sensitive nature of patient’s medical information, and the state-of-the-art PDF forms that must be signed to authorize the release of these data. The digitization of electronic health information has enabled more instantaneous and granular access of patient’s own medical records, as well as the exchange of these records between systems. Yet such a reality is far from the case in the US to this day. Recent developments and interest in blockchain technology have yielded numerous proof-of-concept networks to exchange medical data between systems, both from the patient level and the healthcare institution-level. These technologies lack the ability to transfer the actual data itself, though, and only index the transfer of access control from one party to another. Connecting this access control to health data centers, increasing located on cloud servers, is essential to unlocking the potential of these concepts.
